Could IPFS have prevented the Bybit hack? (#708)
ipfs/ipfs-blog: src/_blog/bybit-hack.md

![Gnosis founder sharing the CID of the open-source fork of the Safe frontend](../assets/bybit-hack/eternal-tweet.png)

> [Source](https://x.com/koeppelmann/status/1893274676756881852)

### Native content addressing on the web

One of the longest standing goals we've had for the IPFS project is to make client-side verification integrated into browsers, making CIDs first-class citizens. In an ideal world, you should be able to use CIDs in browsers using `ipfs://` without necessrily installing a "full" IPFS node that runs as a separate process on your computer.

To this end, we've launched multiple projects with varying degrees of success. The main challenge we run into time and time again is browser contraints and the lack of extensibility APIs that would allow shifting trust away from a specific origin from which content is served to a self-certifying identifier like a CID, allowing content to be verified locally, regardless of the source.

> Browser extensions distributed through extension stores are harder to compromise in comparison to HTTP servers, because rollout is staged rather than instant, and vetted code assets can be bundled within the extension itself. Moreover, publishing mandates signing by the author, ensuring that users are installing the extension from a trusted source. We are investigating how we could [package the Service Worker IPFS gateway as a browser extension](https://github.com/ipfs/in-web-browsers/issues/212) to improve the user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To some degree, browser security experience could be augmented with [WebExtensions](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions). Browser extensions distributed through extension stores are harder to compromise in comparison to HTTP servers, because rollout is staged rather than instant, and vetted code assets can be bundled within the extension itself. Moreover, publishing mandates signing by the author, ensuring that users are installing the extension from a trusted source. We are investigating how we could [package the Service Worker IPFS gateway as a browser extension](https://github.com/ipfs/in-web-browsers/issues/212) to improve the user experience.
```

![ipfs-deploy-action setting the CID in the commit status](../assets/bybit-hack/cid-commit-status.png)

The action is built with open tooling makes no assumption on your build process, so it works with any static site generator. Moreover, it sets the status of the commit with the CID allowing for more visibility and auditability of your deployments.

<br />
<a href="https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-deploy-action" class="cta-button">
  Try ipfs-deploy-action
</a>

### Signaling the CID to users

Once you've deployed your frontend to IPFS, you need to signal the CID to users. This can be done in a few ways:

- Publishing the CID in the GitHub release notes, like [Eternal Safe](https://github.com/eternalsafe/wallet/releases/tag/v1) and [Uniswap](https://github.com/Uniswap/interface/releases/).

> - Storing the CID onchain:
>   - Using [ENS](https://ens.domains)
>   - Using [IPCM](https://github.com/PinataCloud/ipcm)

Reviewer: nit: one line
```suggestion
- Publishing the CID onchain with [ENS](https://ens.domains) or [IPCM](https://github.com/PinataCloud/ipcm)
```

> - Using [IPNS](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/ipns/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Regularly publishing cryptographically-signed [IPNS](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/ipns/) records

> - Using [DNSLink](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/dnslink/)

Reviewer: dnslink on its own is weak, so either remove or put more meat on it:

```suggestion
- Leveraging [DNSLink](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/dnslink/) with hardened resolver ([DNSSEC](https://www.cloudflare.com/learning/dns/dnssec/how-dnssec-works/)-only and/or non-ICANN resolver such as [this one for ENS](https://github.com/ethlimo/limo-web3-dns)).
```

Each of these has different security properties and tradeoffs, some of which have been evaluated in the [Dapps on IPFS](https://blog.ipfs.tech/dapps-ipfs/) blog post.

> Perhaps the quickest way to get up and running is using the GitHub approach. In this case, Security is inherited from GitHub which has multiple layers of security and auditability.

Reviewer: maybe note we dont inrcrease security surface if we publish cid in same place as existing binaries.

```suggestion
Perhaps the quickest way to get up and running is through GitHub, which provides strong security and auditability. At minimum, reuse GitHub Releases to publish both original source code and CID. This provides your users with means to load frontend in a verifiable way.
```

### Retrieving the frontend

With the CID in hand, users have a few ways to retrieve the frontend:

> - Local IPFS node like [IPFS Desktop](https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop/releases) provides the highest level of security, with local verification and caching, but not always possible, e.g. on mobile devices.

Reviewer: reads bit weird, and would also include companion as desktop on its own requires user to discover how to open things, companion makes it more obvious and automatically redirects to lcoal node when possible 

```suggestion
- Local IPFS node like [IPFS Desktop](https://docs.ipfs.tech/install/ipfs-desktop/) together with [IPFS Companion browser extension](https://docs.ipfs.tech/install/ipfs-companion/) provide `ipfs://cid` URI support with the highest level of security, with local verification and caching. Great solution for desktop, but does not work on mobile.
```

> - In-browser verification with the [Service Worker Gateway](https://github.com/ipfs/service-worker-gateway) is getting better, however, it's still tied to an origin which could serve malicious client code if successfully exploited. We are currently investigating how we could package the Service Worker IPFS gateway as a browser extension to improve the user experience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In-browser verification with the [Service Worker Gateway](https://github.com/ipfs/service-worker-gateway#readme) is getting better, however, initial bootstrap of the worker is still tied to an HTTP server which could serve malicious client code if successfully exploited. We are currently investigating how we could package the Service Worker IPFS gateway as a browser extension to close this gap and improve the user experience.
```

> - HTTP Gateways, e.g. `ipfs.io`, `dweb.link`, and `eth.limo`, serving unverifiable, deserialized assets can't verified, and should therfore not really IPFS. As the [IPFS Principles](https://specs.ipfs.tech/architecture/principles/#verification-matters) document states, **verification matters**, if you are not verifying, it's not IPFS.

Reviewer: this one also reads weird, maybe (feel free to disregard cheese one if its too much)

```suggestion
- Public Good HTTP Gateways, e.g. `ipfs.io`, `dweb.link`, and `eth.limo`, return deserialized assets which can't verified by end users. As the [IPFS Principles](https://specs.ipfs.tech/architecture/principles/#verification-matters) document states, **verification matters**, if you are not verifying, it's not IPFS. This is a supply chain equivalent of "not your keys, not your cheese".
```

<br />

> <a href="https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-desktop/releases" class="cta-button">
>   Download IPFS Desktop
> </a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/install/ipfs-desktop/#install-instructions" class="cta-button">
  Download IPFS Desktop
</a><br/>
<a href="https://docs.ipfs.tech/install/ipfs-companion/" class="cta-button">
  Install IPFS Companion
</a>
```

## Collaboration Proposal: Let's work together

> [Interplanetary Shipyard](https://ipshipyard.com/), is an **independent collective of people maintaining many of the most popular implementations in the IPFS and libp2p ecosystem**.

Author: ```suggestion
[Interplanetary Shipyard](https://ipshipyard.com/), is an independent collective of people maintaining many of the most popular implementations in the IPFS and libp2p ecosystem.
```

> If you are a dapp developer looking to of your frontend, we'd love to hear from you at `contact [at] ipshipyard.com`.

Reviewer: seems to miss something between "to" and "of", perhaps
```suggestion
If you are looking to improve security of your dapp, we'd love to hear from you at `contact [at] ipshipyard.com`.
```

- Curious to explore browser extensions for your dapp that enforce frontend security via the Service Worker Gateway and safelisted release CIDs?
- Want to sponsor browser improvements to remove dependency on DNS and PKI as trust anchor?

> Let's chat!

Reviewer: Maybe instead of email, link to our contact page?

```suggestion
[Let's chat](https://ipshipyard.com/contact-us)!
```

tags:
  - ipfs
  - dapps
  - Helia
  - js-ipfs
  - ipns
  - ens
---

## The Bybit Hack and IPFS

Bybit's recent hack, which resulted in the loss of $1.4, is a reminder of the importance of verification for frontends, especially dapp frontends in the Web3 ecosystem.

Based on what we know at the time of writing, it's seems apparent that IPFS, through local verification, could have served as a preventive a line of defence in this sophisticated hack, potentially preventing this all together.

In this blog post, we will recap what we know about the hack and share our perspective on the role IPFS has to play, diving into some of the technical efforts we've been spearheading at [Interplanetary Shipyard](https://ipshipyard.com/) to improve the health of the ecosystem.

## So how did the hack happen

The TL;DR is that hackers managed to gain access to the AWS S3 bucket that hosted the Safe frontend served from `app.safe.global` and uploaded a malicious version of the frontend days before the hack. The frontend specifically targeted the Bybit cold wallet, causing owners of the multisig to sign a malicious transaction while obscuring the malicious transcation in the frontend.

> It's not exactly clear how the hackers managed to gain access to the AWS S3 bucket. Some reports suggest that one of the developers' credentials was compromised through social engineering.

Author: It's in the report below

> It's not exactly clear how the hackers managed to gain access to the AWS S3 bucket. Some reports suggest that one of the developers' credentials was compromised through social engineering.

Author: Linked to the tweet from the CEO of Bybit

![conclusions about the Bybit hack](../assets/bybit-hack/conclusions.jpeg)

## Security is layered

> Security in software systems is approached in layers, often referred to as "defense in depth." This strategy involves implementing multiple security measures rather than relying on a single protective mechanism. If one layer fails, additional layers provide backup protection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Security in software systems is approached in layers, often referred to as "defen(s/c)e in depth." This strategy involves implementing multiple security measures rather than relying on a single protective mechanism. If one layer fails, additional layers provide backup protection.
```

second place i see defence/defense written, but with opposite spelling of previous use.

> In the context of this hack, there are three obviously failures:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the context of this hack, there are three obvious failures:
```

1. The Safe frontend was unverified
2. The Safe multisig owners signed a malicious transaction
3. There were no additional approval layers in the Safe smart contract to prevent the malicious transaction from going through.

> Since IPFS is mainly concerned with the first point, we'll focus on that. There's much to be said about the other two points, like the importance of clear signing (rather than blind signing as is the case with smart contract wallets like Safe), better UX, and tooling to verify transactions.

Reviewer 2: sounds potentially attacking of Safe (you use blind signing, its bad...). I think we should stay away from that angle, or at least finger pointing some product's flaws, if we can.

## IPFS and frontend verification

The IPFS project has long advocated for wider adoption of client verification. Over a year ago, we published a [blog post](https://blog.ipfs.tech/dapps-ipfs/) discussing the importance of client verification and how IPFS can help:

> End-to-end integrity: as long as a user of your Dapp has the CID you shared, they can be sure they are running the exact code that you published by verifying locally. Local verification is crucial since Dapps interact with a blockchain **and malicious code can lead to loss of user funds**. Integrity is adjacent to trustlessness — because verification eliminates the need to trust the source of data.

> > From [The State of Dapps on IPFS: Trust vs. Verification](https://blog.ipfs.tech/dapps-ipfs/)

Reviewer 2: @lidel what does the underscore hug do here? Does this italicize? why italicize this?

> The important of end-to-end integrity through verification is not new to many of us in the Ethereum and IPFS ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The important of end-to-end integrity through verification is not new to many of us in the Ethereum and IPFS ecosystem.
```

Ethereum, web3, crypto, and IPFS ecosystems? or is that too broad?

Author: I'd say either Ethereum and IPFS or just Web3.

In fact, we feel vindicated seeing the Gnosis founder share the CID of an open-source fork of the Safe frontend called Eternal Safe shortly after the hack, while the Safe team conducted a forensic review of their services and frontend:

> ![Gnosis founder sharing the CID of the open-source fork of the Safe frontend](../assets/bybit-hack/eternal-tweet.png)

Reviewer 2: link to actual tweet as well?

## So where are we today?

There's two sides to this story:
- How you deploy your frontend to IPFS and safely signal the CID to users
- How you retrieve the frontend from IPFS and verify it locally

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

And a few angles with which to approach these sides:
```

> - Local node is ideal, but not always possible, as it's resource intensive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Local node is ideal, but not always possible, as it may be resource intensive.
```

It may be, but it doesn't have to be.. but most people don't have the effort.. I would stray from shouting that running a local node has to be super resource-intensive.

> - Trusted gateways just shift the problem without solving it. No verification, not IPFS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Trusted gateways just shift the problem without solving it. No verification, not IPFS.
```

some readers may not know that you mean `ipfs.io`, `dweb.link` and others here.

- In-browser verification with the Service worker IPFS gateway is getting better, however, it's still tied to an origin —an inherent constraint of the web platform— which could serve malicious client code if successfully exploited.

> - Browser extensions, which get get distributed through extension stores are better because they require the extension to be signed by the author, ensuring that users are installing the extension from a trusted source. We are investigating how we could package the Service Worker IPFS gateway as a browser extension to improve the user experience.

Reviewer 2: link to tracking issue? or https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-companion/issues/1284#issuecomment-2051877045 ?

> ## How we can improve?

Reviewer: If there is one thing project maintainer should takeaway from our blogpost, is "Publish CID and CAR with your each release".

```suggestion
## How our ecosystems can improve?

- Ensure every frontend release notes have official CID and a CAR
  - This allows users to import CAR to their local IPFS node, and load verified  frontend in secure Origin at a local gateway ([`cid.ipfs.localhost`](https://specs.ipfs.tech/http-gateways/subdomain-gateway/)).
```

ps. @2color perhaps this is a good opportunity to add option to attach CAR to CI build with https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-deploy-action and thengive a shoutout to the action in this blogpost? Filled https://github.com/ipfs/ipfs-deploy-action/issues/17

Being able to tell people "add this to your CI and you will have verifiable CID&CAR at zero cost" would be huge.

- No blind signing

> ## Collaboration Proposal: Let's work together

Reviewer 2: looking forward to this here :)

> ## Collaboration Proposal: Let's work together

Reviewer: if useful, some ideas for prompts/calls for action:

- looking for consultancy how to produce and distribute CID of your releases?
- interested in improving specific aspect of local verification at end-users machines?
- curious to explore companion browser extension for your dapp that enforces frontend security via IPFS SW gateway and safelisted release CIDs?
- want to sponsor browser improvements to remove dependency on DNS and PKI as trust anchor?

Lets talk! `contact [at] ipshipyard.com` :rocket:
